examples/workflows/README.md, before:

# Example: Workflows

This example demonstrates the concept of [workflows](http://law.readthedocs.io/en/latest/workflows.html).

The actual payload of the tasks is rather trivial. The workflow consists of 26 tasks which convert an integer between 97 and 122 (ascii) into a character. A single task collects the results in the end and writes all characters into a text file.

Resources: [luigi](http://luigi.readthedocs.io/en/stable), [law](http://law.readthedocs.io/en/latest)


#### 1. Source the setup script (just software and some variables)

```shell
source setup.sh
```


#### 2. Let law index your the tasks and their parameters (for autocompletion)

```shell
law index --verbose
```

You should see:

```shell
loading tasks from 1 module(s)
loading module 'analysis.tasks', done

module 'analysis.tasks', 2 task(s):
    - CreateChars
    - CreateAlphabet

written 2 task(s) to index file '/law/examples/workflows/.law/index'
```


#### 3. Check the status of the CreateAlphabet task

```shell
law run CreateAlphabet --print-status -1
```

No tasks ran so far, so no output target should exist yet. You will see this output:

```shell
print task status with max_depth -1 and target_depth 0

> check status of CreateAlphabet()
|   - check LocalFileTarget(path=/law/examples/workflows/data/CreateAlphabet/alphabet.txt)
|     -> absent
|
|   > check status of CreateChars(branch=-1, ...)
|   |   - check TargetCollection(len=26, threshold=1.0)
|   |     -> absent (0/26)
```


#### 4. Run the CreateAlphabet task


```shell
law run CreateAlphabet
```

This should take only a few seconds to process.

By default, this example uses a local scheduler, which - by definition - offers no visualization tools in the browser. If you want to see how the task tree is built and subsequently run, run ``luigid`` in a second terminal. This will start a central scheduler at *localhost:8082* (the default address). To inform tasks (or rather *workers*) about the scheduler, either add ``--local-scheduler False`` to the ``law run`` command, or set the ``local-scheduler`` value in the ``[luigi_core]`` config section in the ``law.cfg`` file to ``False``.

The task tree should look like this in the scheduler app:

![Workflow graph](https://www.dropbox.com/s/o2lcz42u4y6ncvg/law_workflows.png?raw=1 "Workflow graph")

Also, you might want to add the ``--slow`` parameter to make the tasks somewhat slower in order to see the actual progress in the scheduler (this is of course not a feature of law, but only implemented by the tasks in this example ;) ).


#### 5. Check the status again

```shell
law run CreateAlphabet --print-status 1
```

When step 4 succeeded, all output targets should exist:

```shell
print task status with max_depth 1 and target_depth 0

> check status of CreateAlphabet()
|   - check LocalFileTarget(path=/law/examples/workflows/data/CreateAlphabet/alphabet.txt)
|     -> existent
|
|   > check status of CreateChars(branch=-1, ...)
|   |   - check TargetCollection(len=26, threshold=1.0)
|   |     -> existent (26/26)
```

To see the status of the targets in the collection, i.e., the grouped outputs of the branch tasks,
set the target depth via `--print-status 1,1`.


#### 6. Look at the results

```shell
cd data
ls
```


#### 7. Cleanup the results

```shell
law run CreateAlphabet --remove-output -1
```

Commit message:

Mention docker example image in all examples.

examples/workflows/README.md, after:

# Example: Workflows

This example demonstrates the concept of [workflows](http://law.readthedocs.io/en/latest/workflows.html).

The actual payload of the tasks is rather trivial. The workflow consists of 26 tasks which convert an integer between 97 and 122 (ascii) into a character. A single task collects the results in the end and writes all characters into a text file.

Resources: [luigi](http://luigi.readthedocs.io/en/stable), [law](http://law.readthedocs.io/en/latest)

There are multiple ways to setup and run this example:

1. Docker: `docker run -ti riga/law:example loremipsum`
2. Local: `source setup.sh`


#### 1. Let law index your the tasks and their parameters (for autocompletion)

```shell
law index --verbose
```

You should see:

```shell
loading tasks from 1 module(s)
loading module 'analysis.tasks', done

module 'analysis.tasks', 2 task(s):
    - CreateChars
    - CreateAlphabet

written 2 task(s) to index file '/law/examples/workflows/.law/index'
```


#### 2. Check the status of the CreateAlphabet task

```shell
law run CreateAlphabet --print-status -1
```

No tasks ran so far, so no output target should exist yet. You will see this output:

```shell
print task status with max_depth -1 and target_depth 0

> check status of CreateAlphabet()
|   - check LocalFileTarget(path=/law/examples/workflows/data/CreateAlphabet/alphabet.txt)
|     -> absent
|
|   > check status of CreateChars(branch=-1, ...)
|   |   - check TargetCollection(len=26, threshold=1.0)
|   |     -> absent (0/26)
```


#### 3. Run the CreateAlphabet task


```shell
law run CreateAlphabet
```

This should take only a few seconds to process.

By default, this example uses a local scheduler, which - by definition - offers no visualization tools in the browser. If you want to see how the task tree is built and subsequently run, run ``luigid`` in a second terminal. This will start a central scheduler at *localhost:8082* (the default address). To inform tasks (or rather *workers*) about the scheduler, either add ``--local-scheduler False`` to the ``law run`` command, or set the ``local-scheduler`` value in the ``[luigi_core]`` config section in the ``law.cfg`` file to ``False``.

The task tree should look like this in the scheduler app:

![Workflow graph](https://www.dropbox.com/s/o2lcz42u4y6ncvg/law_workflows.png?raw=1 "Workflow graph")

Also, you might want to add the ``--slow`` parameter to make the tasks somewhat slower in order to see the actual progress in the scheduler (this is of course not a feature of law, but only implemented by the tasks in this example ;) ).


#### 3. Check the status again

```shell
law run CreateAlphabet --print-status 1
```

When step 2 succeeded, all output targets should exist:

```shell
print task status with max_depth 1 and target_depth 0

> check status of CreateAlphabet()
|   - check LocalFileTarget(path=/law/examples/workflows/data/CreateAlphabet/alphabet.txt)
|     -> existent
|
|   > check status of CreateChars(branch=-1, ...)
|   |   - check TargetCollection(len=26, threshold=1.0)
|   |     -> existent (26/26)
```

To see the status of the targets in the collection, i.e., the grouped outputs of the branch tasks,
set the target depth via `--print-status 1,1`.


#### 4. Look at the results

```shell
cd data
ls
```


#### 5. Cleanup the results

```shell
law run CreateAlphabet --remove-output -1
```
