examples/parallel_optimization/README.md, before:

# Example: Parallel optimization using scikit optimize

This toy example demonstrates parallel optimization using scikit optimize and law workflows.

In a real world example the objective will likely be a expensive to compute function like a neural network training or other computational demanding task. Here we will use the [branin function](https://www.sfu.ca/~ssurjano/branin.html) as a benchmark.

For more information about the optimization strategy used in this example take a look at this [scikit optimize tutorial](https://scikit-optimize.github.io/notebooks/parallel-optimization.html).

Resources: [luigi](http://luigi.readthedocs.io/en/stable), [law](http://law.readthedocs.io/en/latest), [scikit optimize](https://scikit-optimize.github.io/), [matplotlib](https://matplotlib.org/)


#### 1. Install dependencies for this example

```shell
pip install luigi scikit-optimize matplotlib
```


#### 2. Source the setup script (just sets up some variables)

```shell
source setup.sh
```


#### 3. Let law index your the tasks and their parameters (for autocompletion)

```shell
law index --verbose
```

You should see:

```shell
loading tasks from 1 module(s)
loading module 'tasks', done

module 'tasks', 3 task(s):
    - Optimizer
    - OptimizerPlot
    - Objective

written 3 task(s) to index file '/examplepath/.law/index'
```


#### 4. Check the status of the OptimizerPlot task

```shell
law run OptimizerPlot --print-status -1
```

No tasks ran so far, so no output target should exist yet. You will see this output:

```shell
print task status with max_depth -1 and target_depth 0

> check status of OptimizerPlot(branch=-1, start_branch=-1, end_branch=-1, iterations=10, n_parallel=4, n_initial_points=10, plot_objective=True)
|   - check TargetCollection(len=10, threshold=1.0)
|     -> absent (0/10)
```

The `-1` value tells law to recursively check the task status. Given a positive number, law stops at that level. The task itself has a depth of `0`.


#### 5. Run the OptimizerPlot task

```shell
law run OptimizerPlot --iterations 10 --n-initial-points 10 --n-parallel 4
```

This should take a minute to process.
You can see the plots being created after each optimization step at `data/OptimizerPlot`.

By default, this example uses a local scheduler, which - by definition - offers no visualization tools in the browser. If you want to see how the task tree is built and subsequently run, run ``luigid`` in a second terminal. This will start a central scheduler at *localhost:8082* (the default address). To inform tasks (or rather *workers*) about the scheduler, either add ``--local-scheduler False`` to the ``law run`` command, or set the ``local-scheduler`` value in the ``[luigi_core]`` config section in the ``law.cfg`` file to ``False``.


#### 6. Check the status again

```shell
law run OptimizerPlot --print-status -1
```

When the optimization succeeded, all output targets should exist:

```shell
print task status with max_depth -1 and target_depth 0

> check status of OptimizerPlot(branch=-1, start_branch=-1, end_branch=-1, iterations=10, n_parallel=4, n_initial_points=10, plot_objective=True)
|   - check TargetCollection(len=10, threshold=1.0)
|     -> existent (10/10)
```


#### 7. Look at the results

```shell
ls data/OptimizerPlot
```

##### Convergence of the optimization

<img width="500" alt="convergence_9" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/13285808/37497600-950d3944-28b9-11e8-8861-bf30855a070d.png"/>

##### Sampled points

<img width="500" alt="evaluation_9" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/13285808/37497601-95431da2-28b9-11e8-94ad-c610426f4e5e.png"/>

##### Pairwise partial dependence plot of the objective function

<img width="500" alt="objective_9" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/13285808/37497602-955d9e16-28b9-11e8-8a57-f8cc82c81c8b.png"/>

Commit message:

Mention docker example image in all examples.

examples/parallel_optimization/README.md, after:

# Example: Parallel optimization using scikit optimize

This toy example demonstrates parallel optimization using scikit optimize and law workflows.

In a real world example the objective will likely be a expensive to compute function like a neural network training or other computational demanding task. Here we will use the [branin function](https://www.sfu.ca/~ssurjano/branin.html) as a benchmark.

For more information about the optimization strategy used in this example take a look at this [scikit optimize tutorial](https://scikit-optimize.github.io/notebooks/parallel-optimization.html).

Resources: [luigi](http://luigi.readthedocs.io/en/stable), [law](http://law.readthedocs.io/en/latest), [scikit optimize](https://scikit-optimize.github.io/), [matplotlib](https://matplotlib.org/)

There are multiple ways to setup and run this example:

1. Docker: `docker run -ti riga/law:example loremipsum`
2. Local: `source setup.sh`


#### 1. Install dependencies for this example

```shell
pip install luigi scikit-optimize matplotlib
```


#### 2. Source the setup script (just sets up some variables)

```shell
source setup.sh
```


#### 3. Let law index your the tasks and their parameters (for autocompletion)

```shell
law index --verbose
```

You should see:

```shell
loading tasks from 1 module(s)
loading module 'tasks', done

module 'tasks', 3 task(s):
    - Optimizer
    - OptimizerPlot
    - Objective

written 3 task(s) to index file '/examplepath/.law/index'
```


#### 4. Check the status of the OptimizerPlot task

```shell
law run OptimizerPlot --print-status -1
```

No tasks ran so far, so no output target should exist yet. You will see this output:

```shell
print task status with max_depth -1 and target_depth 0

> check status of OptimizerPlot(branch=-1, start_branch=-1, end_branch=-1, iterations=10, n_parallel=4, n_initial_points=10, plot_objective=True)
|   - check TargetCollection(len=10, threshold=1.0)
|     -> absent (0/10)
```

The `-1` value tells law to recursively check the task status. Given a positive number, law stops at that level. The task itself has a depth of `0`.


#### 5. Run the OptimizerPlot task

```shell
law run OptimizerPlot --iterations 10 --n-initial-points 10 --n-parallel 4
```

This should take a minute to process.
You can see the plots being created after each optimization step at `data/OptimizerPlot`.

By default, this example uses a local scheduler, which - by definition - offers no visualization tools in the browser. If you want to see how the task tree is built and subsequently run, run ``luigid`` in a second terminal. This will start a central scheduler at *localhost:8082* (the default address). To inform tasks (or rather *workers*) about the scheduler, either add ``--local-scheduler False`` to the ``law run`` command, or set the ``local-scheduler`` value in the ``[luigi_core]`` config section in the ``law.cfg`` file to ``False``.


#### 6. Check the status again

```shell
law run OptimizerPlot --print-status -1
```

When the optimization succeeded, all output targets should exist:

```shell
print task status with max_depth -1 and target_depth 0

> check status of OptimizerPlot(branch=-1, start_branch=-1, end_branch=-1, iterations=10, n_parallel=4, n_initial_points=10, plot_objective=True)
|   - check TargetCollection(len=10, threshold=1.0)
|     -> existent (10/10)
```


#### 7. Look at the results

```shell
ls data/OptimizerPlot
```

##### Convergence of the optimization

<img width="500" alt="convergence_9" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/13285808/37497600-950d3944-28b9-11e8-8861-bf30855a070d.png"/>

##### Sampled points

<img width="500" alt="evaluation_9" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/13285808/37497601-95431da2-28b9-11e8-94ad-c610426f4e5e.png"/>

##### Pairwise partial dependence plot of the objective function

<img width="500" alt="objective_9" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/13285808/37497602-955d9e16-28b9-11e8-8a57-f8cc82c81c8b.png"/>
